When we’re faced
with challenging assignments,
reliance on Jehovah is of utmost importance.
In what ways can we show that reliance?
I have the pleasure of introducing you
to a friend of mine,
Shane Brady, who is presently serving
along with his wife, Iolanda,
at the branch in Finland.
Brother Shane Brady and I
previously worked together
at the Canada branch.
Shane has been involved
in legally defending our brothers
for the past 22 years in many countries,
including Armenia, Kazakhstan,
and Kyrgyzstan.
Shane, it’s good to see you.
How are you doing?
I’m doing very well.
It’s great to see you too, Mark.
Shane, we want to ask you,
What have been some of the challenges
that you’ve faced
in accepting these assignments
in various countries in the world?
Well, there certainly have been
a few challenges.
One is frequent travel.
Another is language;
each country that we assist
has its own language.
Some court cases are very stressful,
and at times, we’ve faced firsthand
the hatred of our opposers.
Yes. And you know, Shane,
in spite of all that,
you and your wife have always been willing
to go on these assignments.
We appreciate your spirit so much.
Is there an experience
that you can share with us
that would give us a taste
of the kinds of situations
that you’ve had to deal with
in these countries?
Well, there have been many experiences.
But one experience comes to mind.
A few months ago,
there was a special pioneer,
and a case was started against him.
And if the decision was negative,
it could have had very serious consequences
for our work in that country.
So we did our best
to present a strong defense.
But as the trial progressed,
things didn’t seem to be going so well.
But on the last day of the trial,
everything changed.
We presented a motion,
and we asked the judge
to terminate the case against the brother.
Personally, I didn’t think
it would actually work.
But one older brother who we’ve worked with
over the years always told us,
“We need to give Jehovah something to bless.”
And so we did, and the results
were quite unexpected.
When we made the motion, the judge turned
to the prosecutor and asked,
“Well, what’s your opinion?”
And to our surprise,
the prosecutor agreed with our request,
and he even went beyond what we asked.
He said to the judge
that the government official
that started the case
against our brother should be punished.
Well, the judge agreed;
the case was terminated.
When we were walking out of the courtroom,
I looked at the other brothers with me
and we all said the same thing,
“What happened?”
It was obvious
—Jehovah had intervened.
That’s wonderful, Shane.
I wish we had more time
to hear many more experiences.
But could you just share
at least one more with us?
Sure.
In another land where our work
is not recognized,
on the night of the Memorial,
a number of the brothers were arrested
for so-called illegal religious activity.
They were all convicted at trial.
So arrangements were made
to appeal each of those cases,
and they were heard
before a different appeal court judge.
What at first seemed quite negative,
the loss at trial,
turned out to be an amazing result.
Let me give you just one example.
In one of the appeals,
as we were presenting the appeal,
not long into the case,
the appeal court judge stopped us,
and he began to ask us
many questions about the Bible
and about what Jehovah’s Witnesses believe.
So for quite some time,
we answered these Biblical questions,
and then the case continued.
And then after some minutes,
the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said,
“I remember reading in the Bible”—
The judge said this,
“I remember reading in the Bible
“that Jesus said:
‘If they have persecuted me,
they will persecute you also.’”
So we said to the judge:
“Yes, indeed. Jesus said that.”
The judge asked,
“Do you think that’s the reason why
Jehovah’s Witnesses
are having problems in this region?”
Well, what could we say
but agree with the judge.
But that wasn’t the end of it.
As the case continued a few minutes more,
the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said:
“You know, I’m not sure if Jesus said this.
“It’s in the Bible where he said:
“‘Where there are two or three
gathered together,
there I am in your midst.’”
And we assured the judge,
“Indeed, those are Jesus’ words.”
The judge looked out at this old courtroom,
which was filled
with our brothers and sisters, and he said,
“Well, Jesus must be in our midst today.”
We felt like breaking into applause.
At the end of the court hearing,
the judge ruled in our favor
and acquitted the brother,
and the judges in all of the other cases
also acquitted our brothers.
It was just a thrilling experience!
Oh, that’s wonderful;
that’s wonderful, Shane.
Thank you so much
for sharing those experiences.
You know, despite the challenges
that you’ve had to face,
how do you feel about the way
you and Iolanda have benefited
from being involved in accepting
these challenging assignments
in various parts of the world?
Well, we have benefited
in so many ways, Mark.
Our relationship with Jehovah has deepened.
Certainly, our trust in Jehovah
has been strengthened.
And we’ve experienced firsthand the love
of the amazing worldwide brotherhood.
Could I just share one experience about that?
Please, please do.
Two years ago, we were involved in a case
where police had raided
a congregation meeting in one country.
They had brutally beaten the brothers
and threatened the sisters.
It was just terrible!
Some weeks later in the court case
that started against the brothers
(that the police brought
against the brothers),
during that court case,
the police repeatedly tried
to arrest me and another brother
I was working with.
Over two days they were trying to arrest us.
Even in the courthouse,
they tried to detain and arrest us.
And all through this, my wife, Iolanda,
was watching what was happening.
But do you know what was so remarkable?
It was that despite the brutal treatment
our brothers and sisters
had endured just a few weeks earlier
at the hands
of these very same police officers,
those dear brothers and sisters
came to our aid.
They were like a wall
of protection around us,
and they would not leave our side
until the ordeal was done.
It was love in action.
So to answer your question,
we have benefited in so many ways.
We don’t regret for a moment
accepting this thrilling assignment.
Well, thank you so much, Shane.
Please give our love to Iolanda as well.
We appreciate the tremendous work
that you’re accomplishing,
and may Jehovah’s spirit
continue to be with you.
It’s our privilege.
We look forward to continuing
to work with you, Mark.